README.md, before:

# GitHub Link
[Github Repo : https://github.com/Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git](https://github.com/Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git)

# Help documentation
This terminal application requires Python3 to run. If you don't know whether you have python3 installed or not, you can type below commond in your ternimal.

```
python3 --version
```

It will show which version of Python3 you installed. If you do not have Python3. You can go to Python offical website to install it.
- On Mac , use [these](https://wsvincent.com/install-python/#install-python-on-macos) instruction.
- On WSL, use [these](https://wsvincent.com/install-python/#install-python-on-linux) instruction.

User the commond line mentioned before to check if Python3 successfully installed or not.

After python3 successfully installed, type the command below.

```
git clone git@github.com:Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git
```

nagivate to the src folder inside using this commond

```
cd JieZhou_T1A3/src
```

Create the virtual environment to install some packages and run the application

```
python3 -m venv venv
```
Activate the virtual environment
```
source venv/bin/activate
```
Install pytest, art, pandas packages

```
./packages.sh
```

Once everthing is set up, use the below script to start the program

```
./cupcake_shop.sh [your name]
```

# Style Guide

The code style guide I choose is PEP 8. It provides the easy readability and consistency

- Indentation ( Use 4 spaces per indentation level )

```py
def delete_item(item_no):
    if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] > 0:
        cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
        if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
            cart_dict.pop(item_no)
        origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
    else:
        print("The item no is wrong, please select again....")
        input("enter to contine.....")
```

- Import

```py
from os import system
from art import *
import os.path
import json
from functions import *
from history import item
from datetime import datetime
```
- Pet Peeves

```py
while option != "5": 
    system("clear") 
    welcome()               # shop ASCII title using art package
    
    option = main_menu()    # return user input
    if option == "1":
```
- Adding whitespace around the operators

```py
if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] > 0:
        cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
        if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
            cart_dict.pop(item_no)
        origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
```

# Program control flowchart

![flowchart](docs/terminal.png)

# Development Plan
The internet has changed the way we shop. Because of the numerous advantages and benefits, more and more people these days prefer buying things online over the conventional method of going into stores. 

Convenience is the biggest perk. Where else can you comfortably shop at midnight while in your pajamas? There are no lines to wait in or cashiers to track down to help you with your purchases, and you can do your shopping in minutes.

This app is designed to simulate the online shopping purchase and checkout process.

## User expericence:
- Once user start the program, they will see a list of menu options. Include 4 options bring user to the submenu and 1 option to quit the program.
- If user select the first option "Show menu", there will be a list of stock items show on the screen. And it will display today's special at the bottom of that list. And user can input the item no. to add this item into the shopping cart or enter "m" back to main menu.
- If user select the second option "Go to cart", there will be a list of items on the screen which user decide to select and add into shopping cart from the previous menu. User can input item no. to delete the item from the shopping cart or enter "m" back to main menu.
- If user select "Checkout" option, the receipt will show on the screen with each selected items name, price and quantity, and total price. If some purchased items are today's special, it will show in the receipt as well.
-  If user select "Show purchase history" option, it will print the whole list of user purchase history seperate with purchase date.
- As long as "exit the progeam" not seleted, user can continue purchase items in this program.




# Features
## Feature 1.

```py
option = ""
option = main_menu()
```

```py
def main_menu(): # return the user input from the main menu
    print("1. Show Menu")
    print("2. Go to Cart")
    print("3. Checkout")
    print("4. Show purchase history")
    print("5. Exit the program")
    opt = input("Please select the option(1-5): ")
    return opt
```

The first Feature is Main menu in this program. It has 5 options for users to choose using while loop. As long as user select number is not equal to 5, the program will process different functions or error handling (user input is not 1-5). And always has the option to bring the user back to main menu during each function. The varibale "option" is a global scope




## Feature 2.

```py
def buy_item(item_no):
    if origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
        print("Item not in stock......Please select other items")
    else:
        if item_no in cart_dict:
            cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
            origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
            print(f'1 {cart_dict[item_no]["name"]} has been added to your cart.')
        else:
            cart_dict[item_no] = origial_dict[item_no].copy()
            cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] = 1
            origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
            print(f'1 {cart_dict[item_no]["name"]} has been added to your cart.')
```

The second feature is add selected item into a new dictionary. It will use if statment to check different condition. Like if the stock quantity is 0, use can't select this item to purchase, it also is a kind of error handling to prevent the program crash. And some logical calculation like when the user purchase one specific item, the quantity of that item in the stock will decrease by 1 and the quantity of that item in shopping cart will increase by 1. If the user input item's number is not in the list, will let user know (error handling)



## Feature 3.

```py
elif option =="3":
    system("clear")
    tprint("Receipt")
    if len(cart_dict) != 0:         # checkout and display the receipt
        display_receipt(date, cart_dict)
        cart_dict = {}              # after checkout, empty the shopping cart
        input("enter to continue........")
    else:
        print("There is no item in cart.....")
        input("enter to continue........")
        continue 
```
The third feature is display the receipt on the screen when user select the checkout menu. It will show the date of purchase and the list of items purchased using for loop and total amount. And it handle the error by checking if the shopping cart is empty or not. There is an extra date function inside this menu which is checking if any purchased items are discount items.


# Implementation plan

[Trello link: https://trello.com/b/v5Ptle7v/shopping-cart-app](https://trello.com/b/v5Ptle7v/shopping-cart-app)

I use trello as a project management platform to implement and track my project.

![Project management](docs/trello1.png)
![Project management](docs/trello2.png)

### Feature 1 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature1.png)

### Feature 2 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature2.png)

### Feature 3 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature3.png)

This program is a kind of simulation of online shopping and checkout function we are using everyday.

Commit message:

create test documents in docs folder

README.md, after:

# GitHub Link
[Github Repo - https://github.com/Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git](https://github.com/Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git)

# Presentation video Link
[Youtube presentation link - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PJilN0UT2gQ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PJilN0UT2gQ)

# Help documentation
This terminal application requires Python3 to run. If you don't know whether you have python3 installed or not, you can type below commond in your ternimal.

```
python3 --version
```

It will show which version of Python3 you installed. If you do not have Python3. You can go to Python offical website to install it.
- On Mac , use [these](https://wsvincent.com/install-python/#install-python-on-macos) instruction.
- On WSL, use [these](https://wsvincent.com/install-python/#install-python-on-linux) instruction.

User the commond line mentioned before to check if Python3 successfully installed or not.

After python3 successfully installed, type the command below.

```
git clone git@github.com:Jiezhoue/JieZhou_T1A3.git
```

nagivate to the src folder inside using this commond

```
cd JieZhou_T1A3/src
```

Create the virtual environment to install some packages and run the application

```
python3 -m venv venv
```
Activate the virtual environment
```
source venv/bin/activate
```
Install pytest, art, pandas packages

```
./packages.sh
```

Once everthing is set up, use the below script to start the program

```
./cupcake_shop.sh [your name]
```

# Style Guide

The code style guide I choose is PEP 8. It provides the easy readability and consistency

- Indentation ( Use 4 spaces per indentation level )

```py
def delete_item(item_no):
    if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] > 0:
        cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
        if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
            cart_dict.pop(item_no)
        origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
    else:
        print("The item no is wrong, please select again....")
        input("enter to contine.....")
```

- Import

```py
from os import system
from art import *
import os.path
import json
from functions import *
from history import item
from datetime import datetime
```
- Pet Peeves

```py
while option != "5": 
    system("clear") 
    welcome()               # shop ASCII title using art package
    
    option = main_menu()    # return user input
    if option == "1":
```
- Adding whitespace around the operators

```py
if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] > 0:
        cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
        if cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
            cart_dict.pop(item_no)
        origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
```

# Program control flowchart

![flowchart](docs/terminal.png)

# Development Plan
The internet has changed the way we shop. Because of the numerous advantages and benefits, more and more people these days prefer buying things online over the conventional method of going into stores. 

Convenience is the biggest perk. Where else can you comfortably shop at midnight while in your pajamas? There are no lines to wait in or cashiers to track down to help you with your purchases, and you can do your shopping in minutes.

This app is designed to simulate the online shopping purchase and checkout process.

## User expericence:
- Once user start the program, they will see a list of menu options. Include 4 options bring user to the submenu and 1 option to quit the program.
- If user select the first option "Show menu", there will be a list of stock items show on the screen. And it will display today's special at the bottom of that list. And user can input the item no. to add this item into the shopping cart or enter "m" back to main menu.
- If user select the second option "Go to cart", there will be a list of items on the screen which user decide to select and add into shopping cart from the previous menu. User can input item no. to delete the item from the shopping cart or enter "m" back to main menu.
- If user select "Checkout" option, the receipt will show on the screen with each selected items name, price and quantity, and total price. If some purchased items are today's special, it will show in the receipt as well.
-  If user select "Show purchase history" option, it will print the whole list of user purchase history seperate with purchase date.
- As long as "exit the progeam" not seleted, user can continue purchase items in this program.




# Features
## Feature 1.

```py
option = ""
option = main_menu()
```

```py
def main_menu(): # return the user input from the main menu
    print("1. Show Menu")
    print("2. Go to Cart")
    print("3. Checkout")
    print("4. Show purchase history")
    print("5. Exit the program")
    opt = input("Please select the option(1-5): ")
    return opt
```

The first Feature is Main menu in this program. It has 5 options for users to choose using while loop. As long as user select number is not equal to 5, the program will process different functions or error handling (user input is not 1-5). And always has the option to bring the user back to main menu during each function. The varibale "option" is a global scope




## Feature 2.

```py
def buy_item(item_no):
    if origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] == 0:
        print("Item not in stock......Please select other items")
    else:
        if item_no in cart_dict:
            cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] += 1
            origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
            print(f'1 {cart_dict[item_no]["name"]} has been added to your cart.')
        else:
            cart_dict[item_no] = origial_dict[item_no].copy()
            cart_dict[item_no]["qty"] = 1
            origial_dict[item_no]["qty"] -= 1
            print(f'1 {cart_dict[item_no]["name"]} has been added to your cart.')
```

The second feature is add selected item into a new dictionary. It will use if statment to check different condition. Like if the stock quantity is 0, use can't select this item to purchase, it also is a kind of error handling to prevent the program crash. And some logical calculation like when the user purchase one specific item, the quantity of that item in the stock will decrease by 1 and the quantity of that item in shopping cart will increase by 1. If the user input item's number is not in the list, will let user know (error handling)



## Feature 3.

```py
elif option =="3":
    system("clear")
    tprint("Receipt")
    if len(cart_dict) != 0:         # checkout and display the receipt
        display_receipt(date, cart_dict)
        cart_dict = {}              # after checkout, empty the shopping cart
        input("enter to continue........")
    else:
        print("There is no item in cart.....")
        input("enter to continue........")
        continue 
```
The third feature is display the receipt on the screen when user select the checkout menu. It will show the date of purchase and the list of items purchased using for loop and total amount. And it handle the error by checking if the shopping cart is empty or not. There is an extra date function inside this menu which is checking if any purchased items are discount items.


# Implementation plan

[Trello link: https://trello.com/b/v5Ptle7v/shopping-cart-app](https://trello.com/b/v5Ptle7v/shopping-cart-app)

I use trello as a project management platform to implement and track my project.

![Project management](docs/trello1.png)
![Project management](docs/trello2.png)

### Feature 1 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature1.png)

### Feature 2 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature2.png)

### Feature 3 checklist
![Feaure 1 checklist](docs/feature3.png)

This program is a kind of simulation of online shopping and checkout function we are using everyday. 

# Two test cases

## The Test Spreadsheet is in the docs folder

## Test case 1 - Receipt function
- Check if today's discount item no. is matching the stock item no. based on day of the week.
- Check the total amount when some selected items are belong to today's special

## Test case 2 - Delete items
- When user purchsse items, delete those items from the stock list (decrease the quantity)
- If the selected item's quantity is 0, prompt message

## Test case 3 - use json read the file
- Read txt file and assign to a varible, check the len of that varible.
